I think it's important for us to put together this structure that it's easier to keep track of, especially
as the application grows, we have more screens, we have a lot of things going on in a single application.
Of course, he wouldn't need to do what I'm going to show you right now, but I think it's a good idea
to get into the habit of doing this way that I'm going to show you, as opposed to just putting everything
all over the place.
Let's go ahead and create a new package inside of our main package.
So new package.
It's called this navigation.
OK, there it is, and going to create another package.
We can call these screens.
We are going to create two files, the first one is going to be navigation.
The other one is going to be screens.
Get lost right click here and I'm going to add a cuddling class or file called this movie
screens.
All right.
So what are we going to do in movie screens?
Well, here we go and create an enum, so really a way of us to list out all of the possible screens.
Again, there are other ways to do this, but this is the best way because we can always add more screens
into this list in this anam as our application grows.
So I'm going to say something like this, you know, class movie screens as such.
And then here I'm going to create the Enum.
So the first, you know, I'm going to be home screen and the next details.
Screen a session, but inside of this, Ina, I'm going to create a companion object.
OK, now instead of this companion object, I'm going to have a function called from root or root,
depending how you say this.
And in this case, I'm going to pass the root and it's going to be an olive oil string as such.
So this function here is going to be related or inherit from movie screens like that.
And then I'm going to set all of that to a one expression because I want to check a few things.
The first thing I want to check, of course, I'm going to check if root, OK, substring before I see
substring before like this and put forward slash like that because the roots in navigation, they work
pretty much just like if you go to a web link, right?
So it could be something like a double double w that Google dot com and that forward slash in the middle
would go to a root such as sign in.
What are we doing here trying to figure out what is this root?
This is the root of what we're talking about, right?
Which is after the forward slash, right?
So in this case here, instead of when I'm going to say home screen that name things, then this is
going to be a home screen.
That name as such.
And next, we're going to check details, screen that name, getting the actual, you know, value.
It's going to be details, screen that name like this.
And if it's no, we're just going to say, let's just go back to home screen, OK?
Else we are just going to say through a legal argument exception like this and it's going to be, say,
rout.
We're going to pass the route that we try to access.
So it's not recognize essentially in Scotland, if you want to write a function of or any member of
the class that can be called without having to instantiate this class racing, then you can just use
this companion object.
It's almost like the static, a key word in many other languages, such as Java.
So I can go straight for movies that get the movies that from around we that haven't been sanctioned.
In this case, we're also going to create just one instance.
All right.
So that number one next year, once we've done or movie screens right in I'm class here will introduce
is to create the actual navigation.
All right.
So let's go ahead and go say new.
Kathleen?
It's a file that's fine, that's fine, and here I'm going to call this movie navigation.
So what are you going to be doing here is we're going to create that structure that I showed you earlier.
We are actually going to start creating this structure here so we can start with the traffic controller.
All right.
So what I'm going to do.
Let's say it's going to be a composable composable such and I'm going to call this say fine movie
navigation.
Right?
There it is.
And to create our controller now, it's very simple.
Can say foul all this nav controller, and I'm going to set it to the remember nav.
Controller like this now we're going to have a problem here.
The reason why is because the NAF controller say NAF controller, such it's not added into our dependencies
automatically, which means we actually have to go into Gradle.
Go to build that Gradle, the module music app in that here we need to add that dependency doesn't come.
He doesn't come for free.
He doesn't come just like that.
Where do we get that dependency?
Well, Google is our friend.
If you go to developer that Android dot com jetpack, compose navigation or just type in Google Navigation,
compose navigation or call navigation component, you should get somewhere like here.
Now notice here.
This is part of Jetpack, which means that the navigation component is actually also working in compose,
which is really important because we're using compose, so you can go start reading a little bit, the
set up says here.
All you need to do is to add this implementation here by the Android Navigation Compose.
I noticed that the version of this navigation compose dependency here may change by the time you watch
this video.
So what's important is that you just come here, you will always get the current one.
All right.
So let's go back and I'm going to change the syntax a little bit.
I'm just going to put somewhere at the bottom here.
And just going to keep it all uniform, who's going to remove all of those and leave it as that?
All right.
So now we're going to go ahead and sink.
OK.
Everything is.
If you come back here, you can see that now you should have access to import or at least the capability
of importing the Remember controller.
So I say alt or option.
Enter and voila, it's now imported.
So again, we just instantiate it out enough controller, which is really, really important.
Why?
Because remember now controller is the central API of navigation component.
This is what instructs everything to happen.
OK, so now we have created Snap host.
Remember, you now have host, as the name implies, it will host all of the graphs.
These guys here, you will be able to swap out each destination in this case, each composable when
users navigate to a new screen.
So how do you do that?
There is a class.
Let's go ahead and close this now.
Well, we can say nav host.
Look at that.
We have all of these nav hosts and all of them.
They are composable functions, which is very important because we are in compose.
So just pick one.
Now we have to pass enough controller.
Where do we find it?
Well, we just created one pass that and then we have to pass the graph.
But instead of graph here, what we actually one of their paths is going to be the start destination
because the graph is created once we started this nation and we passed that along with start destination
in past the string.
Now for we start this nation, what is it that we're going to be passing here?
Well, let's put this in your line.
We are going to say the following We're going to say movies, movie screens, and I'm going to go ahead
and get home screen and get the name.
What's happening here?
Well, we could have just wrote a string that contains a home screen.
Name, right?
But this is the best way, as I said, because we have just one place where we can add all the screens,
all the destination, all of the composer goals as the app grows, it looks like overkill, but this
is the best way to do this.
Okay, so we just passing this to our destination.
It could be a string.
You could just put a home screen as a string, right?
Double quotes or like this.
Do like this.
All right.
OK, so we have that now and then we can say we have a trailing lambada now inside here.
This is where we put the actual navigation graph builder.
This is where we build what this is, where we build this the knife graph.
That's why you see us here.
NAV graph builder.
Does that makes sense?
That means and this is where we put together decompose the bowls.
But how do we do that?
Well, the way we do this is as follow.
You say composable like this and you can see says composable is a function that you pass out and you
can pass arguments.
But what's important?
You can pass through route.
What route?
We go to movie screens again, that home screen, that name to get the actual value.
And we have another trailing their trailing lambda, which means here we pass.
Where this should lead us to right?
So here I'm going to pass home screen as such.
Now here's the thing this home screen here is going to ask you to import.
That's not the one we want because we have to pass the actual composable.
That's very important here.
OK.
So this is the starting point.
We are saying here our starting point in our nav host, our starting point is going to be in this case
in home screen, which we created, right?
The route here instead of movie screens.
And we say it's going to be a composable we pass the name.
Over water, we want to be.
We want to go the name of the composer.
But now we have to actually pass the composable, the actual composable.
Now this means let them go ahead and go ahead and comment this out.
This means then we have to restructure other things as well for this to work because the things the
way things are right now, everything is inside of main activity.
It works, but it's not going to work for what we want to do.
And this is what are we going to be tackling in the next video?